# NEXTDAYSITE LARAVEL TEST

## Tasks ⌛
1. Using laravel develop an excel upload system to store random data generated by you for over 100k data. The fields should contain First Name, Last Name, Email and Telephone. To be submitted in 48hours.

2. Using laravel write an advert application to capture advert banner upload and record the number of times each advert should randomly display and the total number of times per impression. To be submitted in 72hours.

3. Using laravel, generate 300k data using migrations and seeders and store in the database, use laravel API to pull the data to a view and perform a search query. Fields should contain user data: First Name, Last Name, Email and Telephone. To be submitted in 72hours.

## Getting Started 🚀
### Installation & Configuration
1. Clone the repository.
2. Install the project dependencies:
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```
3. Configure your database
   - Create the database in your phpMyAdmin.
   - Open `.env` file in the project root and edit:
        ```
        DB_DATABASE=databaseName
        DB_USERNAME=databaseUser
        DB_PASSWORD=databasePassword
        ```
4. Run the migrations
   ```bash
   php artisan migrate
   ```

### Solutions
#### 1. Excel Upload System
Store random data generated by you for over 100k data. The fields should contain First Name, Last Name, Email and Telephone.

##### Task Process
Even though this task is very confusing because there is **"upload" in the title** and then **"random data generated by you"** 😕
1. Open the UI
   ```bash
   php artisan serve
   ```
2. **Phase 1**
   - Generate any number of users randomly.
3. **Phase 2**
   - Upload an XLSX file to populate the DB.

###### Extra notes:
1. Once you generate a number of users, an "export users" button shows up at the top of the page.
2. Export and then click the "refresh database" button. This will run `php artisan migrate:fresh` under-the-hood.
3. Proceed to Phase 2, and upload the downloaded file you have.

#### 2. Advert Application
Capture advert banner upload and record the number of times each advert should randomly display and the total number of times per impression.

##### Task Process
1. Open the UI
   ```bash
   php artisan serve
   ```
2. Go to this task's section and upload an image.
3. Show a tabulated record of all uploaded adverts (paginated).
   - Show a thumbnail conversion of the image.
   - Show the number of times it has been randomly picked.
   - And number of times (impressions) it has been "shown" (using the show button).

PS, you can simply seed a few adverts into the DB:
```bash
php artisan db:seed --class=AdvertSeeder
```

#### 3. API Search
Generate 300,000 `users -> firstname, lastname, email, telephone` using seeders. Then, build an API to view all and perform a search query.

##### Task Process
1. Run the database migrations.
2. Run
   ```bash
   php artisan db:seed --class=UserSeeder
   ```
   However, this will only seed **50 user records**, so as to preserve server memory limit. You can utilize [Task 1](#1-excel-upload-system) to dump data in the database.
3. Open the UI and enter this task's section.
   ```bash
   php artisan serve
   ```
4. Follow the steps.

# Final Note 😊
If images, do not preview, ensure you run `php artisan storage:link`.

The UI is a bit foggy because this is not a UI challenge, rather more focused on backend.<br>
Gracias!!! 🥋
